
<metadata....>

# 6. Privacy and Security:

(a) In performing their functions hereunder, the Qualified Hospital and/or its Certified Application Counselors may create, modify, access or receive personal information about an identifiable individual that is protected under federal or state confidentiality laws or regulations including, without limitation, “personal data,” as defined in the Massachusetts Fair Information Practices Act (M.G.L. c. 66A) (“FIPA”), personally identifiable information,” as defined in 45 CFR § 155.260 and “protected health information,” as defined in 45 C.F.R. § 160.103 (any such information, “PI”). If determined necessary by EOHHS, CACs may be required to obtain consent from the individual to the extent necessary to comply with applicable privacy laws and regulations. The Qualified Hospital and its Certified Application Counselors are required by law to protect the privacy and security of such PI. The Qualified Hospital hereby acknowledges and agrees that it shall comply with, and shall ensure that its Certified Application Counselors comply with, all applicable state and federal laws and regulations concerning the confidentiality and security of PI (including, without limitation, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d-1320d-8) and its implementing regulations (45 CFR. Parts 160, 162 and 164) and Section 1902(a)(7) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. § 1396a(a)(7)) and the laws and regulations promulgated thereunder (42 CFR Part 431, Subpart F, M.G.L. c. 118E, § 49 and 130 CMR §§ 501 and 515))and any additional requirements set forth in this agreement. All PI that the Qualified Hospital or a Certified Application Counselor creates, modifies, accesses or receives in connection with performing their functions hereunder is the exclusive property of EOHHS. EOHHS reserves all of its rights to exercise complete control over the access, use, disclosure, and disposition of such PI. The Qualified Hospital agrees to certify to EOHHS, upon request, that in its use of such PI it is in compliance with this Agreement. The Qualified Hospital shall limit access to PI obtained from any source in connection with the performance of this Agreement to those employees, contractors, and agents that need such information in furtherance of the purposes for which EOHHS has entered into this Agreement, and shall ensure that such information is used only for such purposes and only as permitted by appropriate applicant consent documented in the manner directed by EOHHS or required under the CAC Agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Qualified Hospital acknowledges and agrees that in performing its functions hereunder, the Qualified Hospital and its Certified Application Counselors may become “Holders” of “Personal Data” as those terms are defined in FIPA. To the extent the Qualified Hospital becomes a Holder of Personal Data or otherwise receives or accesses Personal Data, the Qualified Hospital acknowledges that it is subject to, and agrees to comply with and to ensure that its Certified Application Counselors comply with, FIPA.

(b) The Qualified Hospital shall use appropriate safeguards as required by all applicable privacy and security rules and regulations to prevent the use or disclosure of PI other than as permitted or required under this Agreement. The Qualified Hospital shall at all times comply with all Commonwealth privacy, security and information technology resource policies, processes and mechanisms established for access to such PI. The Qualified Hospital agrees that it has in place the same or more stringent privacy and security standards with respect to PI as EOHHS. Upon EOHHS’s request, the Qualified Hospital shall permit representatives of EOHHS access to the premises where PI is maintained, created, used, or disclosed for the purpose of inspecting privacy and security arrangements.

(c) The Qualified Hospital will immediately notify EOHHS upon becoming aware of any suspected and/or confirmed: (i) use or disclosure of PI not permitted under this Agreement, (ii) breach of security (as defined in M.G.L. c. 93H, §1(a)) involving PI (ii) or suspected or confirmed security incident. For purposes of this paragraph, a “security incident” means the act of violating an explicit or implied security policy, which includes attempts (whether or not successful) to gain unauthorized access to a system or its data (including PI), unwanted disruption or denial of service, the unauthorized use of a system for the processing or storage of data (including PI); and changes to system hardware, firmware, or software characteristics without the owner's knowledge, instruction, or consent. Security incidents include but are not limited to the loss of data (including PI) through theft or device misplacement, loss or misplacement of hardcopy documents, and misrouting of mail. The Qualified Hospital shall immediately attempt to retrieve PI disclosed or made accessible in violation of this Agreement; take other appropriate actions to mitigate known harmful consequences of the non-permitted use or disclosure; and take such other reasonable and appropriate mitigation actions as may be requested by EOHHS. The Qualified Hospital shall report to EOHHS, both orally and in writing, the nature of the nonpermitted use, disclosure, breach of security or security incident, the harmful effects known to the Qualified Hospital, all actions it has taken or plans to take in accord with this paragraph, and the results of all mitigation actions already taken by it under this paragraph. Any actions to mitigate harmful effects of a non-permitted use or disclosure, breach of security or security incident by the Qualified Hospital on its own initiative or pursuant to the request of EOHHS under this paragraph shall not relieve the Qualified Hospital of its obligations to report such violations as set forth in this Agreement or under applicable law.
